feat: Create a new debugging page (#4730)
Kotlin/kotlinx.coroutines: docs/topics/coroutines-debugging.md

<contribute-url>https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlinx.coroutines/edit/master/docs/topics/</contribute-url>

[//]: # (title: Debug coroutines)

Debugging applications that use coroutines can be challenging because multiple coroutines can run concurrently, suspend on one thread, and resume on another.
Their execution order and the threads they use can also change between runs, making it difficult to follow the execution of a particular coroutine.

On the JVM, you can use the following features to make debugging coroutines easier:

* [Debug mode](#enable-debug-mode) adds a unique name to each coroutine so you can identify it in a debugger and diagnostic output.

> * [Stack trace recovery](#stack-trace-recovery) adds information about where an exception is rethrown or caught.

Reviewer: That's very misleading. Let's discuss this internally, we'll probably converge on solid wording faster that way.

* The [debug agent](#the-debug-agent) tracks active coroutines, reports their state, and more.

Debug mode and stack trace recovery are available in the [`kotlinx-coroutines-core`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.coroutines/kotlinx-coroutines-core/) module.
The debug agent is available in the [`kotlinx-coroutines-debug`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.coroutines/kotlinx-coroutines-debug/) module.

> The debug agent isn't supported on Android.
> 

> > Additionally, R8 version 1.6.0 or later disables debug mode in optimized release builds to reduce the size of the resulting binary.

Reviewer: We can safely omit the R8 version from this tutorial page. 1.6.0 is severely outdated: please see the table at https://developer.android.com/build/kotlin-support

> Debug mode has negligible runtime overhead, so you can keep it enabled to simplify logging and diagnostics.
>
{style="tip"}

To enable debug mode, pass the `-Dkotlinx.coroutines.debug` VM option in your build tool or IDE run configuration.

In IntelliJ IDEA, follow these steps to enable debug mode:

1. In the **Run widget**, select the run/debug configuration you want to update, then select **More Actions** | **Edit**:

   ![Selecting Edit from the More Actions menu for a run configuration in IntelliJ IDEA](coroutines-debug-mode-more-options.png){width="600"}

   > If you don't have a run/debug configuration, select **Current File** in the **Run widget**, then select **More Actions** | **Run with Parameters** to open the run configuration settings.
   >
   {style="note"}

2. In the **Run/Debug Configurations** dialog, enter `-Dkotlinx.coroutines.debug` in the **VM options** field:

   ![Adding the -Dkotlinx.coroutines.debug option to a run/debug configuration in IntelliJ IDEA](run-debug-configuration.png){width="600"}

3. Click **OK**.

> Running your code with Java assertions enabled also activates debug mode automatically.

Reviewer: I'd expect this point to be made to be much earlier. Unit tests run with enabled assertions by default, so many readers don't need to do anything at all—if the code being debugged runs in a test, the debug mode is already on.

Author: thank you 👍  good point — 

I moved it before the "to enable part"
WDYT would it help users to mention the part that unit tests run with assertions enabled by default here? 🤔

Reviewer: Yes. Then, I'd expect most people to go: "Great, then, I can skip this section!" It's always nice when your documentation manages to provide an answer more or less immediately.

        userProfile.await()
    }
}

suspend fun main() {
    UserProfileService.awaitUserProfile()
}
```

In this example, the `parseUserProfile()` function throws the exception in the coroutine started by the `.async()` builder function.
The `Deferred.await()` call in `awaitUserProfile()` rethrows it in the calling coroutine.

With stack trace recovery disabled, the stack trace doesn't show where `Deferred.await()` rethrows the exception:

![Exception stack trace without information about where the exception is rethrown](without-stack-trace-recovery.png){width="600"}

With stack trace recovery enabled, the stack trace also shows where the exception is rethrown:

![Recovered exception stack trace with information about where the exception is rethrown](with-stack-trace-recovery.png){width="600"}

### Stack trace recovery for custom exceptions
<primary-label ref="experimental-opt-in"/>

Stack trace recovery can copy an exception automatically when its class has a public constructor that accepts a message, a cause, both, or no arguments.

If you want the `kotlinx.coroutines` library to recover the stack trace of an exception that requires additional constructor arguments,

> such as a line number or an error code, implement the `StackTraceRecoverable` interface.

Reviewer: Without a doubt, I'd expect this to be a link to the stdlib API reference, but it looks like that documentation wasn't published yet! Could you please drop a comment like `<!-- TODO: add a link to StackTraceRecoverable -->` for us not to forget about it in the future?

Author: yes, definitely I have reminders for all of these (the already published What's new included)

import kotlin.coroutines.debug.StackTraceRecoverable

@OptIn(ExperimentalStdlibCoroutineSupportApi::class)
class FileEditException
// The implementation requires a private constructor
// to pass the cause to the IllegalStateException constructor
private constructor(
    val line: Int,
    private val detail: String,
    cause: Throwable?,
) : IllegalStateException("When editing line $line: $detail", cause),
    // Implements StackTraceRecoverable for stack trace recovery
    StackTraceRecoverable<FileEditException> {

    constructor(line: Int, detail: String) : this(line, detail, null)

    // Copies the line number and message details
    override fun copyForStackTraceRecovery(): FileEditException =
        FileEditException(line, detail, this)
    }

fun main() {
    val original = FileEditException(15, "Unexpected token")
    
    // Normally, you don't need to call this function directly unless you're testing its behavior
    // The kotlinx.coroutines library invokes it automatically during stack trace recovery
    val copy = original.copyForStackTraceRecovery()

    println(copy.message)
    // When editing line 15: Unexpected token

    println(copy.cause == original)

>     // true

Reviewer: This example is reasonable for describing a *stdlib function*—where the documentation should be preferably library-agnostic—yet we're in `kotlinx.coroutines` here and can demonstrate the exact change in the behavior (like the general stacktrace recovery example above).

Note that https://play.kotlinlang.org/ won't be of help—the `kotlinx.coroutines` version is stuck at 1.7.3 there, and only `kotlinx.coroutines` 1.11.0+ supports `StackTraceRecoverable`.

}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="2.4.20-Beta2"}

## The debug agent
<primary-label ref="experimental-opt-in"/>

The [`kotlinx-coroutines-debug`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.coroutines/kotlinx-coroutines-debug/) module provides a debug agent for JVM applications.
The agent tracks coroutines as they are created, suspended, and resumed.

The [`DebugProbes`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.coroutines/kotlinx-coroutines-debug/kotlinx.coroutines.debug/-debug-probes/) API is the main entry point for the debug agent.
You can use it to print active coroutines and their current state.
The output includes stack traces that show where each coroutine was created and where it is suspended.

> You can also use it to print the coroutine hierarchy for a specific `Job` or `CoroutineScope`.

Reviewer: You can print hierarchies without any debug mechanisms, just by traversing the `parent`/`children` links in a `Job`. What `DebugProbes` allow is printing coroutine dumps for a *subset of all coroutines* that corresponds to a specific hierarchy.

Author: 👍 got it — rewrote this part and the specific list bullets as well to clarify:

You can also use it to print a coroutine dump for the hierarchy of a specific `Job` or `CoroutineScope`.

Additionally, you can use the debug agent in production environments to monitor an application's state and improve its observability.

> When you do so, set the [`DebugProbes.enableCreationStackTraces`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.coroutines/kotlinx-coroutines-debug/kotlinx.coroutines.debug/-debug-probes/enable-creation-stack-traces.html) property to `false` to reduce performance overhead.

Reviewer: I feel that the focus here is slightly off. It being possible to use `DebugProbes` in production isn't a feature but a fact of life—someone may want to enable this in production as well for some reason. If they do, we have a warning for them: creating stack traces are slow and should be avoided because of how severe the resulting slowdown is.

Author: I see what you mean. What do you think about phrasing it like this? 🤔 

> If you enable `DebugProbes` in a production environment, it can significantly reduce your application's performance when it creates a stack trace for each new coroutine.
To avoid this overhead, set [`DebugProbes.enableCreationStackTraces`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.coroutines/kotlinx-coroutines-debug/kotlinx.coroutines.debug/-debug-probes/enable-creation-stack-traces.html) to `false`.

Reviewer: That works, yes.

* [`DebugProbes.printScope()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.coroutines/kotlinx-coroutines-debug/kotlinx.coroutines.debug/-debug-probes/print-scope.html) prints the coroutine hierarchy for a `CoroutineScope`.

Here's an example that uses the debug agent to print active coroutines and the coroutine hierarchy for a specific `Job`:

```kotlin
import kotlinx.coroutines.*
import kotlinx.coroutines.debug.*
import kotlin.time.Duration.Companion.seconds

private suspend fun loadAccount() {
    delay(5.seconds)
}

private suspend fun loadPreferences() {
    delay(5.seconds)
}

private suspend fun loadUserProfile() = coroutineScope {
    launch { loadAccount() }
    launch { loadPreferences() }
}

@OptIn(ExperimentalCoroutinesApi::class)
fun main() {
    // Installs the debug agent
    // This is only required if you don't use the -javaagent VM option
    DebugProbes.install()

    runBlocking {
        // Starts a coroutine with two child coroutines
        val loadingJob = launch {
            loadUserProfile()
        }

        // Gives the child coroutines time to suspend
        delay(1.seconds)

        // Prints all active coroutines
        DebugProbes.dumpCoroutines()

>         println("\nUser profile coroutine hierarchy:")

Reviewer: Maybe we should stick a `println()` (without an argument) just above, or possibly `println("============")`, so that the output is easier to understand at a glance?

Author: sure! sounds good to me 👍

	at DebugAgentExampleKt$main$1.invokeSuspend(DebugAgentExample.kt:34)

Coroutine "coroutine#2":StandaloneCoroutine{Active}@185d8b6, state: SUSPENDED
	at DebugAgentExampleKt$main$1$loadingJob$1.invokeSuspend(DebugAgentExample.kt:27)

Coroutine "coroutine#3":StandaloneCoroutine{Active}@67784306, state: SUSPENDED
	at DebugAgentExampleKt$loadUserProfile$2$1.invokeSuspend(DebugAgentExample.kt:14)

Coroutine "coroutine#4":StandaloneCoroutine{Active}@335eadca, state: SUSPENDED
	at DebugAgentExampleKt$loadUserProfile$2$2.invokeSuspend(DebugAgentExample.kt:15)
User profile coroutine hierarchy:
"coroutine#2":StandaloneCoroutine{Active}, continuation is SUSPENDED at line DebugAgentExampleKt$main$1$loadingJob$1.invokeSuspend(DebugAgentExample.kt:27)
	"coroutine#3":StandaloneCoroutine{Active}, continuation is SUSPENDED at line DebugAgentExampleKt$loadUserProfile$2$1.invokeSuspend(DebugAgentExample.kt:14)
	"coroutine#4":StandaloneCoroutine{Active}, continuation is SUSPENDED at line DebugAgentExampleKt$loadUserProfile$2$2.invokeSuspend(DebugAgentExample.kt:15)
```
{collapsible="true" collapsed-title="Debug mode example output"}

> ### Print active coroutines when a JUnit 4 test times out

Reviewer: There's also the equivalent for JUnit 5: https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.coroutines/kotlinx-coroutines-debug/kotlinx.coroutines.debug.junit5/-coroutines-timeout/

Author: 👍 I'll rewrite this part slightly then and add a subsection/info for that as well

To set a timeout for JUnit 4 tests and print all active coroutines and their stack traces if they exceed it, use the [`CoroutinesTimeout`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.coroutines/kotlinx-coroutines-debug/kotlinx.coroutines.debug.junit4/-coroutines-timeout/) rule.
The rule installs debug probes automatically and fails the test with a `TestTimedOutException`.

Here's an example of a test that doesn't complete:

```kotlin
import kotlinx.coroutines.*
import kotlinx.coroutines.debug.junit4.CoroutinesTimeout
import org.junit.Rule
import org.junit.Test

@OptIn(ExperimentalCoroutinesApi::class)
class UserProfileTest {
    @get:Rule
    val timeout = CoroutinesTimeout.seconds(1)

    private suspend fun loadUserProfile() {
        withContext(Dispatchers.IO) {
            // Simulates an operation that doesn't complete

>             delay(Long.MAX_VALUE)

Reviewer: We recommend using the `Duration`-based overloads for `delay` now, even IDEA highlights this code. `delay(Duration.INFINITE)` is the modern equivalent.

	at kotlinx.coroutines.BuildersKt__Builders_concurrentKt.runBlockingK(Builders.concurrent.kt:172)
	at kotlinx.coroutines.BuildersKt.runBlockingK(Unknown Source)
	at kotlinx.coroutines.BuildersKt__Builders_concurrentKt.runBlockingK$default(Builders.concurrent.kt:157)
	at kotlinx.coroutines.BuildersKt.runBlockingK$default(Unknown Source)
	at UserProfileTest.loadsUserProfile(UserProfileTest.kt:19)
	at java.base/jdk.internal.reflect.DirectMethodHandleAccessor.invoke(DirectMethodHandleAccessor.java:103)
	at java.base/java.lang.reflect.Method.invoke(Method.java:580)
	at org.junit.runners.model.FrameworkMethod$1.runReflectiveCall(FrameworkMethod.java:59)
	at org.junit.internal.runners.model.ReflectiveCallable.run(ReflectiveCallable.java:12)
	at org.junit.runners.model.FrameworkMethod.invokeExplosively(FrameworkMethod.java:56)
	at org.junit.internal.runners.statements.InvokeMethod.evaluate(InvokeMethod.java:17)
	at kotlinx.coroutines.debug.junit4.CoroutinesTimeoutStatement$evaluate$$inlined$runWithTimeoutDumpingCoroutines$1.call(CoroutinesTimeoutImpl.kt:79)
	at java.base/java.util.concurrent.FutureTask.run(FutureTask.java:317)
	at java.base/java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:1575)
```

> {collapsible="true" collapsed-title="CoroutinesTimeout example output"}

Reviewer: Will this be uncollapsed by default? Looks like a lot of visual noise that doesn't assist our exposition. Could we edit out the boilerplate parts? `// ... some frames were omitted for brevity`, etc.?

Author: yes — I put it there as some extra optional content - but it's collapsed by default. the reader can expand it if they want/collapse it afterward

<img width="1586" height="296" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/06e84eb5-23e9-4390-96e0-a3317d599794" />

Reviewer: Hm, alright. Just to double-check: is it redundant that `coroutines-and-channels.md` describes the initial state of the collapsible explicitly as `{initial-collapse-state="collapsed" collapsible="true"}`?

Author: it is 👍 😄 ([for example](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/type-safe-builders.html)) — now you only have to specify it the other way (if you want it to be collapsible but expanded by default)

### Limitations on Android

The debug agent isn't supported on Android.

> However, `kotlinx-coroutines-test` can add `kotlinx-coroutines-debug` to an Android project as a transitive dependency.

Reviewer: This is no longer an issue. https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlinx.coroutines/commit/2706a76ae793c40482fed6e23ba30fecf2ae63b4 removed the `kotlinx-coroutines-debug` dependency from `kotlinx-coroutines-test` in 1.6.0.

The instructions could still be useful, but now, there isn't an obvious way to trigger the error.

Author: nice removed it 👍

The `kotlinx-coroutines-debug` module has transitive dependencies on JNA, JNA Platform, Byte Buddy, and Byte Buddy Agent.
Some of these dependencies contain resources with the same paths.
When Android merges dependency resources, the duplicate paths can cause a `DuplicateRelativeFileException` resulting in a build failure.

To resolve the build failure, exclude either the [`kotlinx-coroutines-debug` module dependency](#exclude-the-kotlinx-coroutines-debug-module-dependency) or the [conflicting resources](#exclude-the-conflicting-resources).

#### Exclude the `kotlinx-coroutines-debug` module dependency

To exclude the debug module from `kotlinx-coroutines-test`, add the following to your `build.gradle.kts` file:

```kotlin
// build.gradle.kts
dependencies {
    androidTestImplementation(
        "org.jetbrains.kotlinx:kotlinx-coroutines-test:%coroutinesVersion%"
    ) {
        exclude(
            group = "org.jetbrains.kotlinx",
            module = "kotlinx-coroutines-debug",
        )
    }
}
```

> This resolves the conflict if no other dependency adds the debug module.

Reviewer: At least this is outdated now and can be removed!

On the JVM, you can use the following features to make debugging coroutines easier:

* [Debug mode](#enable-debug-mode) adds a unique name to each coroutine so you can identify it in a debugger and diagnostic output.
* [Stack trace recovery](#stack-trace-recovery) adds information about where a coroutine receives an exception instead of an expected result.
* The [debug agent](#the-debug-agent) tracks active coroutines, reports their state, and more.

Debug mode and stack trace recovery are available in the [`kotlinx-coroutines-core`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.coroutines/kotlinx-coroutines-core/) module.
The debug agent is available in the [`kotlinx-coroutines-debug`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.coroutines/kotlinx-coroutines-debug/) module.

> The debug agent isn't supported on Android.
>
>
{style="note"}

## Enable debug mode

Debug mode assigns a unique name to every launched coroutine.
You can see the coroutine names in a Java debugger, in the coroutine's string representation, and in a thread's name while it runs the coroutine.

> > Debug mode has negligible runtime overhead, so you can keep it enabled to simplify logging and diagnostics.

Reviewer 2: Does this have to be a tip? I think it would be a useful addition to the previous paragraph.

Author: no strong opinion on this one — sure works for me either way 👍

>
{style="tip"}

When you run your code with Java assertions enabled, the `kotlinx.coroutines` library automatically enables debug mode.
Unit tests run with assertions enabled by default, so you don't need to enable debug mode explicitly for them.

> To enable debug mode explicitly, pass the `-Dkotlinx.coroutines.debug` VM option in your build tool or IDE run configuration.

Reviewer 2: What does VM mean here? And can we refer to any useful Maven or Gradle materials we have? Or add tabs to demonstrate how?

Author: > And can we refer to any useful Maven or Gradle materials we have?

Not sure, I haven't found anything specific — I found it in the [Gradle docs](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/application_plugin.html#sec:application_usage) though.

> What does VM mean here?

It's an argument passed to the JVM. We could specify it as: 

> To enable debug mode explicitly, configure your build tool or IDE run configuration to pass the `-Dkotlinx.coroutines.debug` argument to the JVM that runs your application.

Reviewer 2: I like the new description, thanks! And that Gradle link looks good. What about this one for Maven? https://maven.apache.org/configure

Author: sounds good to me 👍 I added them

In IntelliJ IDEA, follow these steps to enable debug mode:

1. In the **Run widget**, select the run/debug configuration you want to update, then select **More Actions** | **Edit**:

   ![Selecting Edit from the More Actions menu for a run configuration in IntelliJ IDEA](coroutines-debug-mode-more-options.png){width="600"}

>    > If you don't have a run/debug configuration, select **Current File** in the **Run widget**, then select **More Actions** | **Run with Parameters** to open the run configuration settings.

Reviewer 2: Can you add a screenshot for this as well? And maybe move it under a collapsible? Like in this KMP tutorial: https://kotlinlang.org/docs/multiplatform/multiplatform-create-first-app.html#run-your-application-on-android

Author: added it 👍 

hmm 🤔 there it's only possible because it's on lvl 4 I think. 😢 or I don't see it how to make it collapsible otherwise.

Reviewer 2: The screenshot is small so I think it's OK without a collapsible!

   >
   {style="note"}

2. In the **Run/Debug Configurations** dialog, enter `-Dkotlinx.coroutines.debug` in the **VM options** field:

   ![Adding the -Dkotlinx.coroutines.debug option to a run/debug configuration in IntelliJ IDEA](run-debug-configuration.png){width="600"}

> 3. Click **OK**.

Reviewer 2: Let's combine this with the previous instruction. It's so short it's not worth a whole other step :)

## Stack trace recovery

When a coroutine receives an exception from another coroutine through a suspending function such as `Deferred.await()`,
the exception's stack trace doesn't contain the stack frames from the receiving coroutine.

> Without these stack frames, the stack trace doesn't show where `await()` is called or which functions lead to that call.

Reviewer 2: Could you extend this sentence a little more with something like "so it's hard to understand what caused the exception."? It feels like it could use just a little more explanation of why missing these stack frames is a problem.

Author: sure thing 👍 : I added:
 
> Without these stack frames, the stack trace doesn't show where `await()` is called or which functions lead to that call, which can make debugging difficult.

with something like "it's hard to understand what caused the exception" — is a bit too fuzzy, imho, but a more specific explanation would just repeat too much: "...which makes it hard to trace which functions lead to that call and which function received the exception from an await() call."

> The `kotlinx.coroutines` library adds this information using _stack trace recovery_, which creates a copy of the exception with additional stack frames.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `kotlinx.coroutines` library restores this missing information through _stack trace recovery_, which creates a copy of the exception with additional stack frames.
```

Author: Hmm 🤔 "restores missing information" might work conceptually, but I think simply “adds this information” is more precise because those stack frames were never part of the original exception’s stack trace.

> When the receiving coroutine resumes, it throws the copy instead of the original exception, which becomes the cause of the copy.

Reviewer 2: Can you separate this into two sentences? It's a bit hard to determine what "which" is referring to easily. Out of curiosity, why does the exception become the cause of the copy? Does it make it easier to debug somehow? This part isn't clear to me.

Author: > Can you separate this into two sentences?

Sure thing — good point! 👍 💯  

> Out of curiosity, why does the exception become the cause of the copy? Does it make it easier to debug somehow? This part isn't clear to me.

🤔 Ah good question: no, throwing a copy doesn't make it easier to debug, it's just an important piece of information, but the reason behind it is implementation-related, so it's not important for the user. 

The following sentences expand on this a little, but the main reason is that (if I understand correctyl) that multiple coroutines can receive the same exception instance, for example by awaiting the same Deferred, then stack trace recovery would modify that shared exception, and the coroutines could overwrite one another's recovered stack frames. (which would make a mess)

If the original exception has suppressed exceptions, they remain attached to it instead of being copied.

> This can prevent cycles in the exception chain and crashes in some frameworks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Keeping them attached to the original exception can prevent cycles in the exception chain and crashes in some frameworks.
```
Just to make it clear what "this" is referring to :)

Debug mode enables stack trace recovery by default.
To disable stack trace recovery in debug mode, pass the `-Dkotlinx.coroutines.stacktrace.recovery=false` VM option.

> Here's an example that demonstrates the difference between stack traces with and without stack trace recovery:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's an example to demonstrate the difference between stack traces with and without stack trace recovery:
```

```kotlin
import kotlinx.coroutines.*

object UserProfileService :
    CoroutineScope by CoroutineScope(CoroutineName("UserProfileService")) {

    private fun parseUserProfile(): String {
        error("Invalid user profile")
    }

    private fun loadUserProfile(): String {
        return parseUserProfile()
    }

    // Runs in the coroutine that calls this function
    suspend fun awaitUserProfile() {
        // Starts a new coroutine
        val userProfile = async(Dispatchers.Default) {
            // The new coroutine throws the exception
            loadUserProfile()
        }

        // The coroutine running awaitUserProfile()
        // receives the exception through the await() function
        userProfile.await()
    }
}

suspend fun main() {
    UserProfileService.awaitUserProfile()
}
```

In this example, the `parseUserProfile()` function throws the exception in the coroutine started by the `.async()` builder function.

> The coroutine that calls `awaitUserProfile()` receives the exception through `Deferred.await()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The coroutine that calls `awaitUserProfile()` receives the exception through the `await()` function.
```
Should this and all the other mentions of `await()` have `Deferred` removed?

Author: actually I'd prefer the other way around 😅 I only used it without Deferred once in the doc since we already mentioned it beforehand. but for clarity I'd prefer it with Deferred here as well. I don't think anyone would misunderstand, but it's clearer.

With stack trace recovery disabled, the stack trace shows where `parseUserProfile()` throws the exception in the coroutine created by the `.async()` function,
but it doesn't include the `Deferred.await()` call in the `awaitUserProfile()` function:

![Exception stack trace without stack frames from the receiving coroutine](without-stack-trace-recovery.png){width="600"}

With stack trace recovery enabled, the stack trace also includes the `Deferred.await()` call in the `awaitUserProfile()` function:

![Recovered exception stack trace with stack frames from the receiving coroutine](with-stack-trace-recovery.png){width="600"}

### Stack trace recovery for custom exceptions
<primary-label ref="experimental-opt-in"/>

> Stack trace recovery can copy an exception automatically when its class has a public constructor that accepts a message, a cause, both, or no arguments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Stack trace recovery can copy an exception automatically when its class has a public constructor that accepts a message, a cause, both, or no arguments at all.
```
To make it sound more natural.

If you want the `kotlinx.coroutines` library to recover the stack trace of an exception that requires additional constructor arguments,

> such as a line number or an error code, implement the `StackTraceRecoverable` interface.

Reviewer 2: Is there an API reference link we can add for the interface?

Author: nope - not yet unfortunately — but we'll update these when we'll have them.

// to pass the cause to the IllegalStateException constructor
private constructor(
    val line: Int,
    private val detail: String,
    cause: Throwable?,
) : IllegalStateException("When editing line $line: $detail", cause),
    // Implements StackTraceRecoverable for stack trace recovery
    StackTraceRecoverable<FileEditException> {

    constructor(line: Int, detail: String) : this(line, detail, null)

    // Copies the line number and message details
    override fun copyForStackTraceRecovery(): FileEditException =
        FileEditException(line, detail, this)
}

private fun editFile() {
    throw FileEditException(15, "Unexpected token")
}

suspend fun main() {
    supervisorScope {
        // Starts a new coroutine
        val fileEdit = async(Dispatchers.Default) {
            // Throws the original exception
            editFile()
        }
        
        // Stack trace recovery creates a copy of the exception,
        // adds the calling coroutine's stack frames, and throws the copy
        fileEdit.await()
    }
}
```

With debug mode enabled, the output contains the recovered copy followed by the original exception as its cause.

> ```text

Reviewer 2: To be consistent, can you make this also a screenshot? I think you can also add it under a collapsible.

Author: I'd prefer not to — some of these are really long (one of them is 80 lines~ in JUnit) so the screenshot would be unreadable. it's cool for the stack trace one, especially with your proposal, but for the rest I much prefer this format because it would either get squashed during resizing or be an absolute monster 😅

	at kotlinx.coroutines.DispatchedTask.run(DispatchedTask.kt:100)
	at kotlinx.coroutines.scheduling.CoroutineScheduler.runSafely(CoroutineScheduler.kt:586)
	at kotlinx.coroutines.scheduling.CoroutineScheduler$Worker.executeTask(CoroutineScheduler.kt:807)
	at kotlinx.coroutines.scheduling.CoroutineScheduler$Worker.runWorker(CoroutineScheduler.kt:717)
	at kotlinx.coroutines.scheduling.CoroutineScheduler$Worker.run(CoroutineScheduler.kt:704)
```
{collapsible="true" collapsed-title="StackTraceRecoverable example output"}

## The debug agent
<primary-label ref="experimental-opt-in"/>

The [`kotlinx-coroutines-debug`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.coroutines/kotlinx-coroutines-debug/) module provides a debug agent for JVM applications.
The agent tracks coroutines as they are created, suspended, and resumed.

The [`DebugProbes`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.coroutines/kotlinx-coroutines-debug/kotlinx.coroutines.debug/-debug-probes/) API is the main entry point for the debug agent.
You can use it to print active coroutines and their current state.
The output includes stack traces that show where each coroutine was created and where it is suspended.

> You can also use it to print a coroutine dump for the hierarchy of a specific `Job` or `CoroutineScope`.

Reviewer 2: I think this can be combined with the paragraph above since they are both about the API.

> If you enable `DebugProbes` in a production environment, it can significantly reduce your application's performance when it creates a stack trace for each new coroutine.

Reviewer 2: Is it a valid use case to have DebugProbes enabled at all in production? Shouldn't it be reserved for debugging and in this case, the performance impact is expected?

Author: sure, someone might find it a valid use case 👍 
The real performance impact is from the stack traces, which they should disable to avoid the overhead, but otherwise — someone might want to do it.

> The `kotlinx-coroutines-debug` module provides automatic [BlockHound](https://github.com/reactor/BlockHound) integration.
> You can use it to detect blocking operations in coroutine contexts where they aren't allowed.
> 
> For setup instructions, see the [BlockHound quick start guide](https://github.com/reactor/BlockHound/blob/1.0.8.RELEASE/docs/quick_start.md).
>
{style="note"}

### Add the debug agent dependency

To use the debug agent in your project, add the `kotlinx-coroutines-debug` dependency:

<tabs group="build-tool">
<tab title="Gradle" group-key="gradle">

```kotlin
// build.gradle.kts
dependencies {
    testImplementation("org.jetbrains.kotlinx:kotlinx-coroutines-debug:%coroutinesVersion%")
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Maven" group-key="maven">

```xml
<!-- pom.xml -->
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlinx</groupId>
    <artifactId>kotlinx-coroutines-debug</artifactId>
    <version>%coroutinesVersion%</version>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
```

</tab>
</tabs>

### Track coroutines with the debug agent

To start tracking coroutines with the debug agent, you can either:

> * Call the [`DebugProbes.install()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.coroutines/kotlinx-coroutines-debug/kotlinx.coroutines.debug/-debug-probes/install.html) function before starting the coroutines you want to track.

Reviewer 2: If this option triggers a warning in newer JDK versions, shouldn't `-javaagent` be the first bullet as the preferred method?

Author: good point 👍 let's flip it. (it's just easier to demonstrate in a code snippet on the website the other way, but much better flipped so good point)

	at java.base/jdk.internal.misc.Unsafe.park(Native Method)
	at java.base/java.util.concurrent.locks.LockSupport.parkNanos(LockSupport.java:269)
	at kotlinx.coroutines.BlockingCoroutine.joinBlocking(Builders.kt:57)
	at kotlinx.coroutines.BuildersKt__BuildersKt.runBlockingImpl(Builders.kt:30)
	at kotlinx.coroutines.BuildersKt.runBlockingImpl(Unknown Source)
	at kotlinx.coroutines.BuildersKt__Builders_concurrentKt.runBlockingK(Builders.concurrent.kt:172)
	at kotlinx.coroutines.BuildersKt.runBlockingK(Unknown Source)
	at kotlinx.coroutines.BuildersKt__Builders_concurrentKt.runBlockingK$default(Builders.concurrent.kt:157)
	at kotlinx.coroutines.BuildersKt.runBlockingK$default(Unknown Source)
	at UserProfileTest.loadsUserProfile(UserProfileTest.kt:18)
	at java.base/java.lang.reflect.Method.invoke(Method.java:580)
	at kotlinx.coroutines.debug.junit5.CoroutinesTimeoutExtension$interceptInvocation$$inlined$runWithTimeoutDumpingCoroutines$1.call(CoroutinesTimeoutImpl.kt:79)
	at java.base/java.util.concurrent.FutureTask.run(FutureTask.java:317)
	at java.base/java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:1575)
```
{collapsible="true" collapsed-title="CoroutinesTimeout JUnit5 example output"}

> ### Limitations on Android

Reviewer 2: I'm a bit confused with this section. We say that the debug agent doesn't support Android but then we advise how to resolve a build failure. Is it so that you can use other parts of the debug module that aren't the debug agent? 🤔

Author: 🤔 I think the title is the culprit here. 

While there is no obvious way to trigger this error, if I understand correctly, it may still be useful for some edge cases. 

this configuration only resolves the resource conflict if `kotlinx-coroutines-debug` is present in an Android project's dependency graph somehow. It doesn't enable the debug agent or other functionality from the module.

I renamed the section to:
### Resolve `kotlinx-coroutines-debug` resource conflicts on Android

Reviewer 2: I like it! This new name makes it much clearer to me. Thanks!

The debug agent isn't supported on Android.

The `kotlinx-coroutines-debug` module has transitive dependencies on JNA, JNA Platform, Byte Buddy, and Byte Buddy Agent.
Some of these dependencies contain resources with the same paths.
When Android merges dependency resources, the duplicate paths can cause a `DuplicateRelativeFileException` resulting in a build failure.

To resolve the build failure while keeping the `kotlinx-coroutines-debug` dependency, exclude the conflicting resources with the following `packaging` configuration in your `build.gradle.kts` file:

```kotlin
// build.gradle.kts
android {
    packaging {
        resources {
            // Excludes license files from JNA and JNA Platform
            excludes += setOf(
                "META-INF/AL2.0",
                "META-INF/LGPL2.1",
            )

            // Excludes the ASM license file from Byte Buddy
            excludes += "META-INF/licenses/ASM"

            // Retains one copy of each Byte Buddy Agent file
            pickFirsts += setOf(
                "win32-x86-64/attach_hotspot_windows.dll",
                "win32-x86/attach_hotspot_windows.dll",
            )
        }
    }
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: WDYT about adding a What's next? section with links to the tutorials you have about debugging?

Author: sure 👍  added a bullet point for the IntelliJ IDEA ones

The debug agent isn't supported on Android.

The `kotlinx-coroutines-debug` module has transitive dependencies on JNA, JNA Platform, Byte Buddy, and Byte Buddy Agent.
Some of these dependencies contain resources with the same paths.
When Android merges dependency resources, the duplicate paths can cause a `DuplicateRelativeFileException` resulting in a build failure.

To resolve the build failure while keeping the `kotlinx-coroutines-debug` dependency, exclude the conflicting resources with the following `packaging` configuration in your `build.gradle.kts` file:

```kotlin
// build.gradle.kts
android {
    packaging {
        resources {
            // Excludes license files from JNA and JNA Platform
            excludes += setOf(
                "META-INF/AL2.0",
                "META-INF/LGPL2.1",
            )

            // Excludes the ASM license file from Byte Buddy
            excludes += "META-INF/licenses/ASM"

            // Retains one copy of each Byte Buddy Agent file
            pickFirsts += setOf(
                "win32-x86-64/attach_hotspot_windows.dll",
                "win32-x86/attach_hotspot_windows.dll",
            )
        }
    }
}
```

## What's next

> * Learn how to debug coroutines in IntelliJ IDEA in [Debug coroutines using IntelliJ IDEA](debug-coroutines-with-idea.md) and [Debug Kotlin Flow using IntelliJ IDEA](debug-flow-with-idea.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Learn how to debug coroutines in IntelliJ IDEA in [Debug coroutines using IntelliJ IDEA](debug-coroutines-with-idea.md) and [Debug Kotlin Flow using IntelliJ IDEA](debug-flow-with-idea.md).
```
